one million
darker
is like a lot
Talking about your financial future from those figures has become the applet to all of you
not sleeping
caught at
uh ... I'd like to start
uh ... identify by a problem for you
and so I'm just going to talk for a few minutes to two and a Q because right
what we want to talk about is losing your wife, but I want to think about
this for just a second
As if we walked out of here today
I said I'd buy
ten percent of your financial future
I'm going to write you a check today
of the state forest
you are going to give me ten percent of everything you give her
uh ... how much will you charge for that
change one-tenth of you
and uh ... I can take it a bit by the way
be careful what you are
everything right now
Well, I think it has a lot about that logic
COP like that for a few let's see how you're going to go for me today
in a lot to do with the money, but
of the state for if you give me
ten percent of what you were
I think it would be very stupid
of you
any of you
if you ask for less than say fifty thousand dollars out of the few years
before going out
make money in so I have a few years of money there, but then I would
begins his royal yacht
visual alongside so
I really think that
If you thought about it
most of you will
for a lot more I think you want to be right
uh ... Fortunately I didn't make the deal with anyone When I started, so
I'm no one a ten percent is generous but can
uh ... I think that
fifty thousand what kind of the absolute minimum
and if you think about that
it means the law today
you are worth five hundred thousand
because of ten percent is worth fifty thousand in cash today
your potential
is worth a minimum of one hundred percent faces
a five hundred thousand dollars which is the great financial asset you have it
way more important
what you do with that five hundred thousand dollar asset that you already have today
whether you decide to buy shares or bonds or whether you put your money in a
mutual fund or choose your own shares or anything of the kind
the largest financial asset
what you go for you through the miles
is the value of your own income power over the years
so that's really what you need to focus on what you focus on your financials
full future
This means that you need to focus on you
for whether your ten percent is worth fifty thousand or a hundred
thousand three hundred thousand
that would be a five hundred thousand millionaire three million for all of you
or it turns out that one of the others is really dependent
I have a very big part of what you do in the next few years
all of you in this room
has the brain doing extremely well in life
You already have the energy to do very well in life
and the question is how do you do it
If you have a two hundred horsepower car
you two hundred or spa Robert
you your full
potential or you get a hundred or spa our fifty horsepower
now there are two things that happen
hold you back
and about
forcing power out of here
your engine whatever it may be all of you have the disputes
at one of those the lack of education, but that probably isn't going to happen
trump many people
If you do not have a lack of education it does not if you do not have a chance to
get a decent education life
would make a difference that it was potential because
you ever block
but the second most important thing
and just as important
is in terms of the habits you develop in terms of what you do with
yourself
a week
hire people
we look for three qualities
we look for integrity
we look for intelligence
and we look for energy
But they do not have the first one that has integrity will kill the other two
because if you hire someone without integrity he really wants to be
done and lazy Gotcha great
blasting the world you will not want to show your energetic self
smart energetic net goals
with integrity
But I say well
you make your own decision on what you can change
your i_q_ or how far you control the soccer player how high you can jump
of the color of your hair very easily
but you can
choose
integrity that matches someone else's to have and if you fit that
with intelligence you have
and energy you have
uh ... you get an extraordinary lead you too many fools
someone ten percent of yourself for fifty thousand on the other
If you don't fit it without your potential
in an important part
and I'll give you a little
apply simple test in terms of thinking about the kinda habit she wanted over
If you don't have what you want to get you can be
it can be lazy which can be fast you can be it
lets be honest you can cut corners of the uh ... cops
and make the resources for you
no one else is going to make room for you
and I suggest you play this little game with me too
Think about the person you want to be in life
serve is one of your contemporaries Maybe someone will orbit the
person you admire most person you change places with if you could
and then write down what you Martin
just put it on a piece of paper
Find out the person you want
least like change places with what really turns you off
when you find repulsive
and give the reasons why
that person you turn off so much
to put those on the other side of the paper
and then look at the list
and you will find all that on the left that is in me and
other people
the qualities that bring them to life
truth
generosity of all kinds of things
the finals of the things you can do to do it yourself is very simple
did not fit yourself, but formed the custom shoe and do early on a military
through life
and on the other hand you will find that
the things that repel people
selfishness OB harmful use all these things selfishness
things
But nobody has to have it if you do it yourself you can get rid of them as well
good to get rid of them early so that
All I'm suggesting is that you're right
the right to list what
which admires
what you find uh ...
despicable
and decide that in other people on the left
I mean
Add and admire everyone's saying you're going to buy for yourself as you do
that when you're young and unlike the rest of your life it doesn't work
If you do when you are fifty or sixty
By then they will have a journey to well-formed
uh ... But if you do it early
behavior becomes a habit so that
If you do
two or three years to go after the same exercise
You will find out the person you admire most like yourself
I may have a little pockets under certain circumstances, but this
uh ... but that's not it is a bad thing and what you want someone to be like
and you don't want to be someone that you dislike and and uh ...
Formal habits early
uh ... he basically can't mess up I will give you another little piece of advice
just a result of this
and then we will get your questions in
and it is
as a general business is a piece of specific finance
uh ... financial advice
I would say
on board credit cards just forget about me
uh ... where in several businesses issue credit card the American public loves
credit cards, but if you start turning debt on credit card you are going to be
pay
uh ... eighteen or twenty percent and
you can't make it
progress and your financial life
who lend on money eighteen or twenty percent
You can make a lot of money by borrowing earlier eighteen or twenty percent
over time
You can find a way that is good that uh ... will borrow from you, however
you do not want on the side of the equation
it is always behind in life
uh ...
You know I was lucky I would be saved about ten thousand dollars by the time I got out
school that was ten thousand dollars
Really worth millions I might later run on because after you get a family
member vaguely expenses roll in, however
but these are my tools to work with, but that was just because I was in front of the
games
If you are behind a game by ten thousand dollars at some point in the payment of eighteen
or twenty percent interest on it
you will never economically you will never get out of that cell
their partner who says
I want to know is where I'm going to die so I'll never go there
events where international affairs as well as you want to find out where you are
do not want to be
uh ... at a time in a void I get about a dozen letters a day
of people with terrible problems
And there are two reasons why they have terrible problems
is one
A number of them have health problems of some sort and they really have
hit by someone or someone in their family was hit by some sort of
catastrophic
uh ... sickness and that's it
you know it's a terrible thing to happen to a family
and they get in
there are bills that they cannot pay and in fact only consult the community that one
in terms of protecting people against it, but it's just plain bad luck
the other one is from people running credit card debt and uh ...
they face bankruptcy as evidenced by bankruptcy once again
and they will of what your money and they can pay them the interest on the loan
pani principled
and half of my letters come from people like that and that
that problem is preventable
catastrophic diseases, however
credit card debt has something to bring on yourself and
this is a better way
this is easier way
to stay out of trouble
than getting out of trouble financially and and uh ...
I will ensure that if you put in a great record you will be in trouble
probably the rest of your life in terms of
uh ... your financial situation on the other hand, if you're ahead of the game
uh ...
even if on a very modest scale
money comes in to invest
mandira that you a
you b
people owe you money or shares Oyu ownership
and you will be way ahead of the game compared to paying it uh ...
It has always been their pay
your creditors every month
my advice to you this sir
if you can't pay for it don't buy
put it yourself in a position where you can pay for everything and uh ...
then we will be glad to see abortion in the rest of the furniture market
Now let's uh ...
let's ask some questions
We have a mic out there that
people can either go in the direction of the journey around her
And I can't necessarily situate well fed
I think one can touch any size in just raising your hand waitress to come
to you
We have some electronics like mine
ask anything about your mind about them
Gottlieb real
how can you people who are innocent
and make curriculum and a pen
me keeping families in my non-standard
Furman it that uh ... performing arts center
Music
What advice would you give to
please
out of financial weakness in the world
but Syrup
that our market system
uh ...
It doesn't pay as well in some and spend some activities as
seems appropriate
for the importance of the activities of society
just a tuition for example on the tuition does not pay well
What could be more important I mean you know you have to be
if interested in what you too
Your children's teachers are scheduling your account desert and up
uh ... everything
Firms win the heavyweight title of the world of that sort of thing, though
it it does not work well paid and and
it is a fundamental choice
uh ... what you are about to go into something that it can be for many people
the definable choice of where to go in something you love, or
something then
to try to make a lot of money I think
generally it is worth going with what you love
uh ... I think that
it is very difficult to find people
when they are my age
say they are up
that they love what they have done their whole life and feel worth it
uh ... but they are terribly sad they made that choice because they didn't have a
a lot of money i idon't think anyone ever
ever said that to me that they wish they wanted away in something else for this
or do uncomfortable under did not enjoy it does not feel very productive, however
make a lot of money
so I don't think you will find
that's why i would never go to work
I would go to work
and any terms your honor
it can turn out to be more profitable than and you can but thank you
almost everyone here will make
enough money
unless they get some terrible habits along the way
to do reasonably well and to do reasonably well in this country
really
is uh ... is pretty darn good I mean activities
it is not necessary
uh ... big sums of money are in order and your ears I enjoy myself when I do
was not
and my ten thousand dollars
I live in the same house I lived in when I was busy when I was over
that I bought forty-one years ago
I would love the house and I love the house now
If you think about it
If you do a reasonable job
you will eat at McDonalds, and I will be there top so our word approach
uh ... on on food I mean
help in the fact that I was very clear actually in Baghdad
uh ... I think on the Dairy Queen you will see me and you can order read on the
menu I can order we will both be able to afford it
you know you old he wears the same clothes I wear I will pay more for me
fit, but is not good for the money looks cheap on me so will talk about the good
the same event
will both live in the same houses I live in the house of forty-one years ago
that's it it's hot in the winter and a school in the summer and it's comfortable
and you live in a house that was somewhere in that
only the is a negative you fifty more rooms orbital guesthouses let down
encourage Brenda problems I mean you have to worry about that
about the uh ... greens keeper something when you get through his
uh ... I was in the house the people
uh ... where the house is a job uh ...
probably two hundred times
uh ... what is my home is worth and i would not submit any heparin dose homes at all
I could I do not want to be so happy I only have one thing not to worry about and
you know there
dozens of people all over the place and
people stop into people stealing from him kinds of these
helicopter
Our drive will be the same kind of car thanks probably a better car I would drive
record about eight years old I don't know what it's worth right now
It took me about five and that I'm very happy to watch
whats the same television you know
will work pretty well on the same computer
The only difference will be
how we long distances
fly a plane that
more comfortable in
when does South West Airlines fly or something against etc.
I have nothing against Babbitt that's the one really big difference and
other than doing what i love every day i hope you know what you want
every day and uh ...
I work with nice people I hope you work with nice people
and that's the twenty-four hours of the day and that's where the hours ago or
so
great wealth
uh ...
just slightly different
uh ... in a real stp sense than just a decent one
a decent income and uh ...
a trade
a decent income
and something you love in something you feel worthwhile
to do it
great stuff for you to trade off a lot of your principles
I would be a terrible mistake
Reviewing that acknowledged success is more about helping yourself learn from others
Well, I did
I got the pipe
which was very happy in life
uh ... If you tell me what your heroes are uh ... I will
make a good prediction on how
what you are going to do and IIII have the right heroes I was very happy in
life and uh ...
my heroes never let me down and started with my dad
and then I have others in business and
so i have
great teachers
a formal teachers some that just
informal teachers teachers by instinct for example
and uh ...
If I didn't have those
uh ...
you know mike my life insurer would have been very different if i was born any
place else when i was born in 1930
uh ... and
in time
one out of fifty bars in the world a united states so i came up against
50-1 chance of birth denied state
I probably would have been a disaster you know if I was born in Afghanistan
or Peru or a place and that i
Four-to-one-i won the lottery Today I was born you know by born in this
land so you all
uh ... I mean you have you
the odds were probably 14-1 against you being born in this country
and uh ... the roots
five times probably born in
the insurance of their six times as
four five times more likely to be born in
and in India or some other place where would not have been easy
to exploit them
for potential account, so we won the lottery in that respect
and it's just plain luck
I mean uh ...
and I was lucky to be born at this time and the capital budget
is something
it pays off very well in society now
But that doesn't mean paying off in other societies in that
did not pay off you know many years ago my friend, but Bill Gates says that if I do
would have been born a few thousand years ago i was a few animals
pilot
I can't run very fast I can't climb trees and you know I just happened
it's talented no one asked me to climb trees now but uh ...
There was a time when I could get out of an important can
By the way bill would have been some animal breakfast and he may not be so fast
leader, though
India uh ...
that we are happy
we think only part of a hundred years ago exactly the same talents and
how far they think of that
of the average person the sheriff so much better than that
the richest person would
uh ... a hundred or a hundred and fifty years ago cell
uh ...
Morgan at respective happy
one of the great parents
I was lucky to make them back online I think in a big public school
system I need to start here
in the first eight degrees
they have a foundation for me
which later, when I got off the track a few times
uh ... He got me through because I have a tremendous high school education
in to author analogous Roselle and one of the reasons
I havent been kind of sorry by the way, but I have a great education
uh ... in part
because
women were around
strongly discriminated against and sold by that time
could be a teacher she could be a secretary she could be a nurse
you know and i was about a reality and i have to tell what draws in united
state
limited to just a few posts so you had plenty of talent
uh ... in that
activities such as nursing her after her teaching because
uh ... a talent
with men are scattered about
every act every formal work activity there was none with women it was
concentrated in a few areas and that
uh ... for the benefit of it it's kind of sad because they have the benefit
teachers, however
But I was very happy
really got that way
uh ... my whole life and
what I do
what I do is important is that what it would be pure governors do or
something of the species
and ii think it is very questionable
it pays off extremely well in a market economy like the United States and uh ...
but it is an accident
demand an innate ability of mine
underscores its marine this is an anti ten omaha central high school a place for
you
one institution chemistry buffet technology is agreed land and
stimulation of the world economy which are your predictions for the future of out
of the IT industry and white was a teacher role in the world economy
the United States on the download said there is no doubt in the world
upside down that's it it's done it a ton
already, but
it will be as I was just beginning
but is moving very fast
I met gates on July fifteenth 1991 there for a fourth of it
Julie
uh ...
celebration with a friend
and uh ...
who subsequently died Meg GREENFIELD of the Washington Post and she left us in the lurch
to those of the gates family
he tried to feed me
and he also has a better chance with chimpanzees I mean II was there so there
really a disaster, though
but it is a good teacher
but one thing he did tell me was that
at the time, he said
you know you have this model in your head of the world
and your model
time and distance
if many factors are limiting and he said they are limiting factors more
admissibility
food
Talk to someone all over the world or put your message in front of
someone or publication
is that it is going to be zero and parcel post a zero does not make a difference
in
you know what revolutionary
it has already happened in a in a very very big way and
it's just uh ... what eight years later
and and that's it that's how it exploded
high technology
information technology where we want to call it
is busy around the world
and that's going to change that and ah ...
very, very big way that I would change and that's one of the things I think about a
businesses we buy
uh ... We announce yesterday's purchase
uh ... door uh ... furniture dealer and and and and Boston in the Boston area
you know I think to myself what the effect of this new world is in terms of the
internet on furniture repairer we have to think about questions like that
that the changes will be huge i will be played bridge yesterday
uh ... with people
uh ... across the country, but I have it with people of the world logistics
on my computer and I have some popcorn ironman khaki and a sweater and
i
I can have a bridge game in thirty seconds with people all over the world
in
uh ... no charge for basically adding
Now that's a lot different than trying to arrange a game before people become a mum
Anton peddles embracing a man wants to play golf mom wants to watch baseball
and his
it's just that it changes things in a big way
we are very happy i mean it is
indeed agreed what the United States leads to the world in this area means we
has an edge
it's hard to think of what's in the second place
and fifteen years or so ago
this country has an inferiority complex would be difficult for you to remember to
shoot you were not yet old enough to be around them, but in the early
eighties
We wondered if the Germans and Japanese were going for everything
and if they were going to make all the steel when they were going to make them all
the cars
and everything else and the TV sets
and we're flip burgers now that was the standard line
and
just think for a short period of like fifteen years I was changed around
in an important way that Shane because
information
a revolution uh ... where we had to
like i said i don't know who
I don't know what you would call is second in the world, but here's
the most important industry in the world
and the United States has this incredible position
and removing all the time from the position so
I think that
argue for a lot
I think it argues for trivia future for the world over time and I think so
argue even more for a wonderful future with this company our country
one of the best place for you to start now in securing their financials
future
uh ... for forgetting to secure their financial future
freely youthful
well it is not
it's a very complicated uh ...
it goes back to
To make full use of your own talents first
I mean, there are twins or you are going to earn extra two extracts
respond here to see
uh ... twenty years from now
goes a function
some time good how much talent you have, but I will how good you the talent you have
already
and uh ...
approximately
your best financial future
is your own ability
and one
and here
uh ... capacity too
to use those abilities to their potential
and
They can take what can be taken away from the Kerry Kerrigan tax
I mean that
you know most things
if you don't as a hobby Serena said they double the tax as double
the tax that changes
your ownership of the property, because now
In effect, the tax authorities are becoming more and more over, because they have
gotta greater command on the revenue stream
uh ... send about
uh ... almost any assets you have uh ...
Big ones and they don't tax what's in your head
and they do not act
here, but what we did
start performing when you get to work in the morning and
ending in the evening uh ... your potential to be one of the things that astounds me
is how people who really well just kind of jump out at your feed want a
running a business when I left school
you all know
want that way of acting, but they don't do most people
going to sleep through life and
added if you don't
you will stand out like that
the big the biggest thing for your financial futures yourself now
further that it is always before the game rather than behind the
game it saves a little no matter how you do it i mean i papers i
worked at pennies and sold well pulling from a pinball machine i got a lot
things
which enabled me to gmail in about ten thousand dollars by the time I got out
school
uh ...
ten thousand are just going to die for now
for something
so that your head of the game and not get behind the game
very important is I just mean
you know when you go to a hundred
and bond against a lot of people in life
uh ... if you can't work it out so that when the gun goes off your ten or
fifteen meters ahead
instead of ten or fifteen yards behind is going to make a big difference
in how the breed comes out like this
after having some net
resources
leave the member service or in stocks or bonds in my eye ...
uh ... and not with guilt
when i did it goes down when you get out of school
uh ... is a big crossover to get behind the game and uh ...
it can come from DOLORES paper in the morning from can come from part time
works somewhere, though
set aside a few dollars for yourself that uh ...
uh ... so
when the time comes in the other
more of the workforce uh ...
your head of the game and not behind and then when you get there behind
by buying a lot of things that
If you go to pay for Sunday you pay twenty percent interest in
in between
since BT please stay in Maine and school let me ask your questions
that they miss him on the market, but I think
my name is Patrick Burland
Plymouth right
I wondered with the increasing
hahahha
education today
welcome to thank students for dealing with this is one surviving college
Well, I think it's a hard line and and and I decide that office is going I could
and I will encourage you, and others if possible and
and uh ...
uh ... before that time came out I would say this
uh ...
in my experience
in business
there is very little difference
if any
between a very high priced business training
and what is available in a lot for a lot less money so ii means iam
I went to college to stay up to date with the Lincoln
Last year in college I had to work for a few years before that ...
uh ...
I learned as much as college breast as I did at the Wharton at uh ...
uh ... and
It is nothing against Warner measures that we have a very good school he writes
and great professors living at the Lincoln
so II will not accept
that if I pay a few thousand dollars for an education system
uh ... here in the state for example
purses pain
large amounts of the swear
that it's going to make a big difference uh ...
uh ... most of the a lot of education
uh ... unity you need to be pushed in the right direction an awful lot of it
self
the self-taught
my Andrew Carnegie a wonderful thing in this country in terms of libraries and
you spend a lot of time
lovers and have frozen in at the university will not want the then
the University of mother on the head
I couldn't get out for hours and uh ... midnight I get so in tune with what I am
was to read, though
there are all kinds of information available now the internet is so much
you know question what was then
it must be taken out there
there is no need to pay
thirty or thirty-five O three dollars a year ago to a
uh ... big names school
education at all
If you are not alone, then account for it most importantly
of course you are in business
going to tell not responsible absolutely as well
and my eye you will I go
Garber I mean ii see uh ...
I would I would Abed on that and uh ...
I wouldn't grow up
large accounts
Interviews with a business training from you know if you want to get a medical
education
I mean, there are certain professions
not a way to
Spend a fair amount of money and get into debt to some extent
is going to make that decision yourself, but definitely try to reduce it
and uh ...
uh ... and i was kind of i would have thought out
how i would
Campbell that debt
and say a period of five years after I left school where I would think twice
Going on
there is a question here if we can bring a microphone
uh ... managed Hong Kong here every few minutes advisory council
uh ... what advice would you have for forming a non-profit organization
executing a non-profit organization
always try to avoid forming a non-profit organization
well II want to bet will depend entirely on what a lot wanted to accomplish I mean
uh ... you know it could be one there was a hospital and another thing
uh ... that over
visitors and are so many kinds of it so i
you know you have people to get
better experienced in involved
uh ...
internet idea like that and uh ...
uh ... but uh ... the defense so much on that
on the objectivity
you work up
off promises shown here
microphone for a long time
I mean carhartt right Nine West high school
and engineer very soon involved a plane hindered he thought
it's very individual and my head
you know I wouldn't say I don't and II do certain topic and I guess
think
Europe your model as a citizen for example and all the walrus god and he
is
much more so that was involved
but I am and uh ...
incident its predecessor Peter had it too but heaters brought it to new
heights so i
uh ... I don't want to
uh ... on any mammal for that myself I do some things uh ...
uh ...
One of the problems I love that I don't do so much is that uh ...
who wants to kind of take the reins over and I'm like a
uh ... man who likes to play a lot offers some things that i like
the business I'm in
uh ... I have a family
district very active uh ...
uh ... some of my kids were
worked
almost anything that comes together in the civic area and
you know it is
you do
and and people do what they want to meet the criteria big and and uh ...
uh ...
I've never spoken to anyone who
who enjoys being in the civil activities that India is very worthwhile
after doing something to build and
participate in building something always
on the right track and acting head of time we have a golf tournament for example
September and
We raise money for seventy drinks a good time to no one pay any price
by doing this I have a good time coming and people are having a good time
And then we have almost two people to show
You have to be enjoying things that you go on and you will want to work in the civilian
activities that
but interesting that you do the same in politics
you know or if you
If you
If you find
political ideas drupal apart
or politicians in particular
you wonder if I really wouldn't take a lot of self satisfaction out
I work continue to do something worthwhile so i
just just follow your instinct on that uh ... their my recommendation
okay
Prime Minister regrets leaving the Ritz through school
I think the old beat youth of today and I wonder
what do you see is the problem facing the biggest economic problem
uh ... visa today goes into the future
now on
I don't think that uh ...
you are going to have enormous economic problems I think you will live in a
society
where the average person
uh ... live better
by a considerable margin
if the average one of the generation earlier is two generations earlier
is the history of this country it is a wonderful country that way
if you really have a four and a half percent of the world's population
you know and and
what has been accomplished is an incredible 53 percent of them
of the value of publicly traded companies in the world exists in
the United States with four and a half percent of the population
this country always
did well not uh ...
and they say in stocks
What you have to buy stock in the business is so good that even an idiot
can run it
for sooner or later one good and and
Those terrible board lessons have not been kind of used in this country
from time to time what I mean we have
We want all the problems that come along when you look back on the ice
hundred years and are all the problems this country is going to do
integrate a very long list into a lot of people who focus on the problems of
the time
missed the bigger picture
and the bigger picture
is that each generation was better than the one before
and it's because of uh ...
ice because of
saving because they do not allow people to
new tools create better things to do as they go as well
because of an environment
with which people realize their potential to a greater extent than most others
environments in the world it is far from perfect I mean it is it it is mature
partisan perfect
but it's better than anything else
around I mean in this country
uh ... you have '
you do not have a commissioner run anything Haiti
you know about a big business in this country you have a guy like Jack Welch "
and and a fellow like Jack Welch makes
can be a difference of
in terms of productivity of the enterprise over a period of decades and
productivity is everything
This is what causes the standard of living to rise to something like that
A system that throws the Jack Welch is operating from world businesses
is going to have an enormous advantage over society that does not have by inheritance
or the do it by the government edict
and we have '
we are closer to that society
which I described in as if anything than any other country and it is
his lead does great things and I will continue to redirect the big thing so that I
think
I think you have the best future
uh ... you know you're not facing a war
and you have a view that you have a
a breather
uh ... you got better
uh ...
future in terms of
achieving neutral rewards
if any
generation in history so
which encourages places
When I dared to make it through the field no
do not
behind Wilkins for Millard West High School
I wondered if you or if you can't speak for Mister gates was scared
van
The impact of white u_k_ on the economy was specifically the stock market bill
and i'm glad you bring indigestion another day because i
I was last night in the world understanding that white too chaotic
you know I don't know why these microphones don't work you know
know why lights go on a
I turn on the switch on my television and pray I mean I say it already is
it I though all is a bit
I would say these are the smartest people I know in that area
uh ... a great deal
think it's a non-event now
in this country that I don't think speaks for the rest of the world, but
uh ...
uh ... So I think uh ...
I think you will wake up
January
first in fine the world does not change from December thirtieth
Now I want to say that maybe you can give a lot of friends a right to
go for a billion dollars on December thirtieth and deposit them
you know who knows what will happen can't lose something i mean like the reaction and
It is a system that fails up you know you can find a lot of money
your account, but I wouldn't count on it there
where we had what we had without a college activity etc.
we have about fourteen or five hundred
uh ... customers on the pieces of planes with us and us, so we have a hundred
we have a hundred and sixty their aircraft of some of our own flying around and
very interesting for me to see
what p
promoted
People on the cell at a time when they were using money it would be very serious
a lot
sign for
January first st
twelve oh a boat trader
it wouldn't bother me to fly Middle East
on January first or anything else on January first
ideally i hope you get to aviator posters plane
GameStop
and Jeannie comfort from Clint bolick
went home and had a decidedly invested time and money and
yellow wine
Businesses that have good economics who now what a good economy will be good
economy or business that
kind of a shape around it
make his product or service look for a place or something
a little more time
unwanted in the customer than any other kind of comparable product
uh ...
you know what the number one candy bar has been in the last thirty or forty years
Snickers
People don't fool around with different candy bars
they fool around with different ones
length dresses so on the yellow all kinds of things, but they do not fool
around with candy bars
because they thought we were going to lay down fifty cents or whatever his input
their mouths and
they are not going to run for fifty cents a farm in your mouth looking for
herself of power of 1245 cents and put something else me
I'm also a
you find that very stable
and we want businesses
what we think
we can figure out where they are going to be in ten or fifteen years
I don't know where the information technology companies are going to be in
ten or fifteen years idler Snickers bars are going to be in ten or fifteen years
are just going to be sold over the spin in the way they do now
Don't worry, please glue in ten or fifteen years is not to be
a lot of innovation
in in insurance of
uh ... the ending internet football cause people to put them in a dominant position
least
makes me think so but i don't accept but uh ...
OB
this is predictable
regarding the sustainability of a competitive advantage some something
special proc
so we look for these kinds of products
and then we have to look for the people
but running the business which is honest
on
clubs
It is easier to find people hospitable because of the fine
businesses that
just goes great for a long period of time
there's a business and looks like a rock star doing amazing work
really about Breyer over time
but this is what we are looking for m
nice thing about it or not to find very many
we find one a year
that's great
You don't have to do a hundred thousand great investment ideas well
you some
and uh ...
the discipline
is the most important thing Sharp brain power
with Winnie discipline
you don't need a hundred and fifty i_q_ to do what i do
You know where you are not a hundred and forty you know they are needed in thirty
five you may need a hundred and fifteen or something like that and
and yet he disciplined him
you have to wait
until you see the fat field swinging up
because investing is a noble called strike game you know up If I
baseball player
and I just love places
two inches above my navel
and though some guy could walk out and he could hit, you know three or four
thumbs down what I call for strikes, because I never find
officially
you can get Colorado strikes in baseball
you have to
You have to swing it places that you don't even necessarily want
degree, to the land of the San two strikes
in business
units that have something you can sit there and
says the paper General Motors of sixty years as John electric hundred and
fifty years as general dynamics of sixty
And if you want these prices you have to swing you can wait there
day after day after day after day, and there are no named strikes
now when you swing when you decide to buy something
if enough you swing in it is just right but he
it's a wonderful come to the end because there are no so-called strikes and you can
simply wait
for that one behind
for six months for a year
two or three years
when you really know what you are doing where you like the price
We would like people to run the business
and then you need to swing in the net a few swings in your life
uh ... So what is the way we have a photo businesses that we try to keep up with
things we understand
and that there can be all kinds of wonderful investment opportunities out there
there
But I don't understand I don't know what cocoa beach will do next year
you know you might know, but I don't know if
I don't know what I don't know what uh ... crude oil supplies sell for
I don't need to know
it's just knowing all the things
on knowing what I know
Pastor Noel where the boundaries of the Mayan concept are harsh
what I call
what my circle conferences
and finally able to evaluate five percent of the businesses in the world
no problem I just put in a five percent and try something
and that most people are in trouble because
in investments because they
which we did a cheap and I look at the support of salsa
they hear about other people making money nothing upsets people so much
they about their friends making money cabinet
it is very destructive to discipline because i think i have smart man next door
neighbor's just bought that new car with the money made trading stock on it
the internet, so I can die
Well the answers that you can't dot work will lose you money for trading stocks
active
and uh ...
uh ... it's hard to practice at this point
but every time you buy something
you must be able to take out a
one patient a paper
I say I travel more help is the purchase of sixty-five I buy Gallagher hundred
fifty
because
and you must write down the reasons
to cancel the tab
it's because someone told me about a cocktail last night it is not
good enough
because because my broker told me it is not good enough
it is a you have a reason to have
To think that it is an intelligent investor that you do the same
thing if you are buying a farm apartment house for sale apartments are by this
parma
a thousand dollars an acre because I think sixty dollars an acre can earn on it
If quan sell so-and-so destroy himself so-and-so must be able to
so-and-so
and you have a solution
This is the same reason you buy
businesses and when you buy shares you buy a piece of the
business
and as part of the most important thing to remember and interesting is that
When you have a stock the purchase of your important piece of votes was sent
When you buy it has an attractive price for the business for the whole
business
you donate money
and if you don't
The time you spend money
promotes Michael
Home Reverend Jackson Jesse Jackson charges were there
you seem to believe that the moral standards are smart in today's society
eventually this business becomes
how you feel it will affect us as youth grow up in nine countries, he said
Most important to stop
Poetry Institute
OPEC disagrees
this is BYO
you reunite
Well, I guess
very difficult
quantify
moral standards overtime I mean, at that
you know you can give choose from major weaknesses at any given time
terms of how
before the country's behavior and and and and and you want to hit so I think it is
usually difficult to quantify
uh ... I think
by and great we made
progress in what I would call institutionalized moral standards
in this country
I mean the the uh ...
uh ... clock in terms of slavery in terms of uh ... in terms of them in the
women women couldn't vote you know from a century ago at uh ...
uh ...
half of the country were second-class citizens in that respect in a lot and
They have
far less rights in terms of inheritance and all kinds of things
uh ...
the income tax
did not exist
a hundred years ago so the idea of taxing people who according to
how much the
they have benefited from the community in their income
uh ... didn't exist that way
I think in terms of institutionalized moral standards
made the land
really very significant progress uh ...
and uh ... in the last hundred years I think you know
there is another must distance to go I think we are going in the right direction
Maybe through jerks and punches
but I think we're going to write correction and I think
uh ...
you know that there is a
it will be a considerable cost to everyone in this role as they live in a lake
moral society forty years from now as callosum Although I think the odds are
that they will
I think the country is moving in the direction of very difficult to do so
all types of stakeholders
doesn't work against it, though
uh ...
Anne and I think the American people will
and then civil rights are sought Manitoba
television to dramatize what's going on
people do not want Europe to not think about it
it has penetrated the conscience of uh ... the American people
and uh ...
uh ... grant of progress made there and there is a lot to be left
but they are better that I
and the pace may seem very slow to the people involved and I can understand
that
uh ...
the pace
you know for a woman's right to vote
for decades and decades and decades
woman can be on a jury
that I was doing the hearing part sterile
which occurred in California of nineteen O. ten or eleven
Uh ... There are no women on the jury that have a man in a great deal of behavior
our citizens in the sense that
so it is
the moral
behavior of the country has my eye
improve, but it uh ...
uh ... to them
and it will continue to improve and I hope you all in this room do your part to
help approach
decay of the central high
and uh ...
wonder how we are in the stock market so high right now
would be smart for us to give
to get involved now is to wait until
trickles down a bit
Yes, I can tell you whether shares for sale are common
I think it's important that you save money
on what they want the stock market to put out there
I don't think so
terribly important I think if you are interested in stocks
issued by a and you have some you have to buy if you mean I get II
any way of running over them
better than x print when im papers with same
I can guarantee you if you lose money on paper lose real money this is another
experience and uh ...
I'm so iii think they think you'll learn more about yourself
uh ...
if you do it so i got my first bow
When I was eleven I was actually a liberal some of the time and with about
three shares of city service preferred
thirty-eight panna
went down to twenty-seven, which is something I still remember even a
lots of time
uh ... and then a bunch of four and I'm selling on I'm a five dollar
on my free shares to commissions and then I have up to two hundred and something
so
You know iii probably remember that a little better than I want to do it on
paper it
I thought we were doing a lot of things between about eleven years old and
nineteen in the stock market I have short-sighted all kinds of
technical analysis I read every book I could find on the subject
I didn't do it so well I could do terribly, but I just beat it while Rob
but bite
What is meant by the age of nineteen when I read Ben Graham spoke of the universe
depressed him like that
I went and found this book called Intelligent Buster just coming out
And I have a big impact on me
But if I did,
In the previous eight years I have been over fate
I'm not so sure that the book where the sender was background and I was by that time
I was prepared to
to read and was to read book that changed my life and actually
the incredible life
uh ...
uh ... I wouldn't be a part of it if I wrote a book
part of life is to
when something significant happens
please call us
the meaning of it and know what to do with it
I would say that the first eight years ahead of her
it did not yield anything financially to speak of
uh ...
have a lot in terms of getting my mind up
But I didn't really read anything that made sense, so I was ready to
assume that
and I actually went back in
when to call me the study under the under Graham
as a result of
from reading the book of all kinds of things that flowed out of itself
I would like to encourage you if you are interested in the field
uh ...
a few things to do, but so far, but intelligence was possible
I want to try to keep up with things
businesses I thought I understood
but still get that paper
and I want to read I don't, because
and just trust my reasoning that I will go back and revisit the year later
and see if what you thought would prove to be true
So I would always checked myself
I believe in the format of myself on everything from the doctors have autopsies
and they do them because they are out of autopsies
uh ... and business people don't like to not be tagged when im all i can be
on the board of directors of the company
building plants for sale companies
and all two years later
tour I see how the decision seems to do it
they can be unpleasant
but you learn from autopsy
and uh ...
you don't want to learn to burn us out of other people's mistakes in your own this
pattern of some of your own and uh ...
The time to do this is when you are young
what you can do maybe one more
direct attack Wonder
Maybe maybe two more p
well my name is Piet Wilson from Craig improv
my question is
to some extent you feel that the government
with uh ... the current policy of welfare and social security is it
financially competent and physically prepared
for the future
I think I think that
the country as a whole is many
very well prepared for the future of it does not mean that
with just about every policy they have, though
uh ...
I think
eight we have a very rich society
and want to return a home and they will be richer
uh ... everyone is not going to participate in anything that will
participate because of
physical disabilities or because of a mental disability due to others
shortcomings in the education they receive winner all kinds of reasons
We have a prosperous life in our society
be able to take care of
of the people
and we have to take care of them
and how we do that so that they feel most useful in life and how we do it so
that we continue to encourage people to be more productive themselves all that I do
means it is
which easy questions though
But it must take us to feel off the wall that we need to do something
about that uh ...
uh ... opt-in I've been keeping this issue down sometimes to the people I say
Assume that it was twenty-four hours before you were born
all you can take is the steps twenty-four hours before it went
and then they come to you
and the spirit says
overdrew their weather out there
you call go
and the Jenny says work
if you look pretty promising
I think you kind of have a sense of fair play in it
on a good thought
and I'm going to let you have an extraordinary opportunity
I'm going to let you design the world in which you're going to be born into
twenty-four hours
this is yours
you choose from the political rules
you make the economic rules
you adhere to the social rules you design around the world
and we are over twenty four hours you are going to be one that I the world
and this is the world just stands for your life
for your children's lifetime fairground shorts lifetime
and you have if some of the Genie jokes would say in the past
What is the catch
and Jenny has a good catch
soon when you are born in twenty-four hours you will emerge
this world you design
But what you do not know
is whether you are going to be born
black or white
male or female
rich or poor
brighter delay
resilient or ill
in the United States or Afghanistan
all you know
is that you are going to achieve in this
taking what is now six billion Bowles withheld is that one person
every person in the world
and you're going to take part in what I call the ovarian lottery
you can take one bought a rubber never another book you
area one ball not even a dealer
now what kind of rules
do what you want to society
not knowing which ball you are going to get
now that night
but has to do with the way
I think people should think about
social policy and if you are born if you are lucky enough to be born around this
land you already won the lottery
We must have a system in my mind
what encourages the Jack Welch in the Bill Gates is to work it all out
far out of time when it wants any economic interest for us
people command the resources that
many able to commander of the mets home pets have a high standard of
moving forward
so we must
you know we need one Tom Osborne
going to new york we want us to have Bill Gates design software and
We don't want a mix up to those two hundred Well, I don't want coaching to go in
the purple kit uh ... sell
you what you want people to fill a system that
welded
do people get other potential m
and put them
in the position where they can do the most good for society
who also wants system for people get the wrong lol
timing someone is going to get the ball
you know what say eighty I want to make a couple is going to get the ball
That says it is easier to cripple the disease early in life zone
and we have an empire in our society
that we can help us take care of the people and I think that
As your question I think this association will move more and more into that
direction it has the ability to move more and more towards it
as our resources
uh ... and our production is increasing and I think the
It has the will to do it in a general way but I can't say they always have
be taught to fit and start so they are not in short supply
in the United States of Resources
there is no shortage of output
you have to have a system
which encourages people to
to limit their limitations
abilities and put them in the right place
but then you have to make sure everyone gets taken care of two
now we can have one more and then we will break
put it over the microphone woman here
make the decision
Hyman's Bengal is going on a solid
And I want to know how you can make the media extra-large in other places
months
small question uh ...
good, but of course not
simply because it
has moved so far technologically
is it got it together yahoo and i was all over china two years ago, when i
right after the time of the women's conference
and uh ... in Beijing
and I read
the Chinese
coverage
of the conference a and of course it is
it has nothing to do and what was going on, but the internet is coming and going
and one
you know you can't
you can access
the Washington Post in the New York Times and II the Washington Post
thirty-nine years night
in effect
I never could get that
next day due to physical delivery, but I want to buy electronic delivery
I can read it
uh ... Denver Bali used to be the most people in Washington to repeat itself
ability to communicate
and the degree to which the world has an awareness of what's going on each
place in the world is just
You know it is only applied
And that will help them have written them a lot of things out of that
there plus overtime, but that they were AB
the ability to make information available to everyone
worldwide almost immediately his
that is it is it is too great to be progress and things like medicine for example justice
uh ...
that is it is this is a net plus it has a
it has a big affected
the definition of the media has now expanded
anonymous I mean, there were three television networks and
in the nineteen and you know in the early sixties and that was it
there were three highways information traveled electronically
As the three piece of information I loved Lucy and I want something different and
something else that goes along with the three choices of information or entertainment
what you had
first ten and ten of millions of people sell their search for it
now it is unlimited and it has only been so for three or so decades
it just exploded and it will continue to explore it
net I think that's a plus
And I think it's 1am I want to thank you all
I wish you well you're going to do a tremendous job now